---
date: 2024-11-01
authors: [techb0lt]
description: >
  Updating the code for this site
categories:
  - Tech
---

## Background

I have changed the look and feel to my liking quite a bit but I was trying to get the nutrition information part more rounded and while the current code works, I have always felt it can be improved and mode a bit less convoluted.

## Changes Completed

* I have updated the presentation layer of the website so colours are more streamlined and the data is better structured.

## Changes in progress

* My most important objective was to move away from putting cooklang recipe in curly brackets and instead be able to include the recipe as a simple code block with qualifier of `cooklang`
  * I have now created a hook for mkdocs which achieves this.
  * Next I updated the parsing script so it cleaner.
* I am working on utilising the Nutritionix API which is quite exhaustive along with already gathered data from other sources including labels, UK Nutrition information puclished on UK govt. site, US API and that from Indian Govt.
  * I am planning to get rid of the Nutirtional Info table which lists net carb per ingredient and replace it with 4 Nutrition Labels - for entire recipe, for 100gms of recipe, per serving and for 2 servings.
  * This will give me enough information on how to utilise the recipe on a given day.
  * Additionally, I am including logic so that nutrition information for any ingredient not found in existing csv file which acts as my ingredient database, I will be presented with that information collected from Nutritionix if it is available and alos present it as a direct copy paste to the csv file, thereby making it easy to maintain the ingredient database for recipes.

I am hoping to apply these changes by next week as testing so far seems to give results I am mostly satisfied with.
