---
date: 2024-11-19
authors: [techb0lt]
description: >
  Updates on changes carried out on the site look and feel.
categories:
  - Tech
---

## Change Log

I have been making incremental changes on the site and I think I have now managed to tick a lot of boxes on my wishlist. Key highlights of various changes I have now incorporated on the site are as below:

### Nutrition Card
The site now presents a nutrition card which includes detailed information on various nutrients not just net-carbs. 
This is accomplished by sourcing data from UK database, Indian Database, US database, Food Labels and if all that fails then usin the Nutritionix API.

After I did that I was missing the individual contributors to net-carb and also noticed some numbers for net-carbs just felt wrong. 
This was because of using Nutritionix caused some silly entries because of spelling mistakes in my recipes. 
So I included another table in nutrition section which also shows net carb contribution per ingredient.

### Recipe Template
Initially I was generating final markdown and html within the python code and it was becoming a bit unmanageable.
So I removed all that from pythin and included the logic in the jinja2 template named `recipe_template.html`. 
This really has made a significant difference in maintaining the code and making minor or even major presentation layer improvements such as:

- Steps included in Ingredient List.
- Steps linked to actual steps in steps section.
- Net-carb information in a circular card-- gives `Net Carb` information on recipe right at the top.

### Code Cleanup
As I was utilising the template, I cleaned up the code further to reduce repeated code and increase reuse of already computed data where possible. 
I guess there may still be scope for improvement here but it is much better already. This is evidenced by the amount of code that has been moved into `archived_functions.py`.

### Multiline and Single line Comments
The code is now updated to parse single line comments made with`--` and multiline comments that are made by enclosing the lines between `[-` and `-]` fro any cooklang recipe.
Additionally, these comments are shown as notes on process flow of the recipe. 
Although, I am not entriely sure if that is looking great as it squishes the diagram. Granted it can just be zoomed but I am just not sure yet.
Finally, I have also removed the tags cloud from blog entries which is only relevant for recipe section of the site.

### Blog Presentation
I removed the custom temlpates I had as material for mkdocs now has builtin blog plugin. 
Just made small overrides to keep the colours etc aligned for the overall site.
I am also not a big fan of using some marker for exceprt so I just truncate the blog entry to first 400 words and show a link continue to read on the blog list.
Finally, I have also removed the tags cloud from blog entries which is only relevant for recipe section of the site.

## To Do

- [x] Cleanup and archive files not needed anymore.
- [ ] Add some explanation / documentation for parser functions.
- [ ] Decide if notes in plantuml should be retained or not.
