*[FSL]: Free Style Libre
*[HbA1c]: The term HbA1c refers to glycated haemoglobin. It develops when haemoglobin, a protein within red blood cells that carries oxygen throughout your body, joins with glucose in the blood, becoming ‘glycated’. By measuring glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c), clinicians are able to get an overall picture of what our average blood sugar levels have been over a period of weeks/months. For people with diabetes this is important as the higher the HbA1c, the greater the risk of developing diabetes-related complications.HbA1c is also referred to as haemoglobin A1c or simply A1c.
*[ADF]: Alternate Day Fasting - This format of intermittent fasting involves eating one day and fasting for one day.
*[OMAD]: One Meal A Day - This format of intermittent fasting involves eating one meal every day and fasting for rest. Most people who follow this tend to eat only dinner or only Lunch.
*[IF]: Intermittent Fasting
*[CGM]: Continuous Glucose Monitor
*[BG]: Blood Glucose
*[UPF]: Ultra Processed Food - UPF has a long, formal scientific definition, but it can be boiled down to this: if it’s wrapped in plastic and has at least one ingredient that you wouldn’t usually find in a standard home kitchen, it’s UPF. Much of it will be familiar to you as ‘junk food’, but there’s plenty of organic, free-range, ‘ethical’ UPF too, which might be sold as healthy, nutritious, environmentally friendly or useful for weight loss (it’s another rule of thumb that almost every food that comes with a health claim on the packet is a UPF). When we think about food processing, most of us think about the physical things done to food – like frying, extruding, macerating, mechanically recovering and so on. But ultra-processing also includes other, more indirect processes – deceptive marketing, bogus court cases, secret lobbying, fraudulent research.
*[Blanch]: Blanching is a cooking process in which a food, usually a vegetable or fruit, is scalded in boiling water, removed after a brief, timed interval, and finally plunged into iced water or placed under cold running water (known as shocking or refreshing) to halt the cooking process. Blanching foods helps reduce quality loss over time.